> Reviewer #2: The authors describe a database which stores behavioural, demographic and MRI data of 94 French subjects (from 4 of which the age is not known), which are publicly available to the community. They describe the construction of the database and briefly mention the types of data available.
> I do not think that this very short and technical description of such a small number of datasets is suitable for publication in "NeuroImage". It might be better suited for a more specialized journal. Having said this, I would like to have the authors consider that there are freely available datasets which are much larger (Functional Connectomes, Human Connectome Project) with at least as much additional information as provided here.

We are aware of the existence of larger shared databases and we agree
our paper is the technical description of a smaller database.

The data we share is associated to published scientific papers. As such
it should not lack scientific interest. The process of opening and
publishing the data is separate from the initial effort and we believe
it deserves a short publication of its own, possibly more technical in
nature than our initial publications or a standalone publication
describing new data. As a side note, we have pushed the relevant part
of the newly opened Localizer data to NeuroVault, thus contributing to
one of the mentioned larger databases. We felt the description of the
data itself, and of the process of opening and publishing the data,
does fall in the scope of the "Data Sharing" special issue of Neuroimage.

A much larger part of the database, around 2000 subjects, has not been
made public so far for reasons related to regulatory rules. However it
might still be used within the more limited scope of scientific
collaborations. We have attempted to clarify this in the paper.

Finally Nilearn, a Python module for statistical learning on
neuro-imaging data, uses the Brainomics/Localizer data as an example
dataset. The data we share is thus probably used by other researchers,
at least for exploratory purposes.
