Reviewer #1: This manuscript describes the Brainomics/Localizer database, a collection of datasets from 94 subjects with imaging (anatomical and functional MRI), behavioral and demographics and genetics data.  

The resource described seems suitable for the "Sharing the wealth: Brain Imaging Repositories in 2015" special issue. Overall the paper provides a good description of the resource. The paper is however quite short and would benefit from some expansion and re-organisation.

--- General comments ---

1. It was unclear from the manuscript whether genetics data was currently available or not in the Brainomics/Localizer data repository. The abstract and introduction mention DNA sampling as being part of the Brainomics/Localizer release. While in the section entitled "The Brainomics genetic neuroimaging database" the authors state that "Currently the publicly available database excludes genetic data, for ethical reasons". Does this sentence mean that genetic data is not part of the data repository described in this paper (i.e. Brainomics/Localizer)? If so, this should be stated more explicitly in the abstract and introduction.

2. In order to clarify what is the Brainomics/Localizer database with respect to other efforts described in this manuscript (Brainomics, Localizer), it would probably be best to start the introduction with a brief description of the Brainomics/Localizer project (i.e. a data repository including datasets from 94 subjects with anatomical MRI scans, functional MRI data, behavioural and demographic data, and DNA sampling) and *then* provide more details about other efforts and how the Brainomics/Localizer relates to them (data exposed in Brainomics/Localizer are a subset of the data acquired as part of the Localizer project and Brainomics/Localizer re-uses software developed as part of the Brainomics project).

3. With respect to the guidelines provided for this special edition (http://www.journals.elsevier.com/neuroimage/call-for-papers/call-for-papers-for-neuroimage-special-issue-sharing-the-wea/), I could not find information related to the following aspects:
o does all the data come from *one center* or scanner?
o Is imaging or other data quality controlled or reviewed? *If so, by whom?*
The second question (by whom?) was not addressed for all data types. Furthermore additional details are needed to describe the quality control performed (cf. specific comments).
o Is there a system for updating users if data is withdrawn/revised/added to?
In particular, could you provide more details on what happens if one of the 94 subjects withdraw his/her consent to share his/her data? Given that there is no authentication system, I understand you cannot contact directly the users. Is your plan to add a message on the website, stating that data for a given subject is no longer available?
o What is the design architecture/system for handling large data request downloads, interrupted connections, etc.?

--- Specific comments ---

* Introduction

The authors claim that "Brainomics/Localizer is one of the rare public databases of individual health information in France". Could you include pointers or cite examples of other similar resources (in and out of France/Europe)?

Given that the authors provide a link to the resulting database, could they also include a link to the publicly available source code in the introduction (instead of providing this link only in section 2.2.3)?

* Material and methods

Could you specify to which "subject identifiers" exactly you are referring to in "re-encoding subject identifiers"? Are these pre-defined DICOM fields?

"Please note that not all described functionality has been implemented: we currently do not provide means to run calculations involving genetic data". Related to the second general comment, could you focus first on what is currently available in the database? If calculations on genetics data are not available yet, could you outline this in a separate paragraph describing potential extensions.

Demographics and behavioural data: "Such data do not present a risk of identifying the subject". Why is it so?

The authors mention alternative databasing solution used in the neuroimaging community (XNAT, COINS). Could you state more clearly why the CubicWeb solution was preferred over those?

Could you clarify what is meant by "joint data types queries". Is this to outline that the Brainomics system is used internally to query jointly genetic and neuroimaging data?

"CubicWeb may run as a standalone application or be smoothly integrated in a platform combining Apache and SFTP with LDAP." What is the difference between those two options? In which cases would one be preferred over the other? Why is it interesting to enable both?

I understand that the Brainomics/Localizer data repository is built on semantic web principles. Are the concepts used by the data model (e.g. Scan, Scanner, SnpVariant, Subject, Center, Assessment...) part of a shared ontology or controlled vocabulary? If so, is this ontology publicly available? If not, how were the terms and data model defined, is there a plan to integrate with other existing effort in the neuroimaging community?

Looking at the code at https://github.com/neurospin/localizer, I could not find the definition of the cubes (while these are available on the cubicweb website). Is there some source code missing in the github repository or was this intended? If the source code for the cubes is only available on the cubicweb website, could you also include a direct link to your cubes on cubicweb?

* Description of the repository

Given that this section is the main description of the repository, for clarity could you state explicitly what are the "four aforementioned types of data"?

"The two 3T MRI scanners". Which scanners are you referring to? Could you give more information about the type of scanner (constructor…), and provide the reader with more information about the difference between the two scanners, if applicable.

Could you specify which reference space was used for the "normalized T1-weighted anatomical MRI scans"?

"Other data can be viewed in tabular form in the Web interface and exported to a variety of formats such as CSV or JSON, as described in paragraph 2.2.2.". For clarity and to facilitate comparison with other publications within this special issue, could you list explicitly which formats are available (even if you still link to 2.2.2 to provide further details).

Could you clarify (for instance provide examples) what is meant by "entity" in "A URI is associated to every entity stored in the database."?

More details are needed to describe quality control:
- "We cross-checked demographic data available from different sources, and manually reviewed behavioural data for each subject.". What are the "different sources" of demographics data? What does the "manual review" of behavioural data covered exactly?
- "Finally fMRI processed images were visually checked." Was there a particular protocol used to visually check the fMRI images? Who was involved in this checking and what type of anomalies were they aiming at?
- "All 94 subjects were considered good enough.". Could you provide more precision on what you meant by "good enough"?. Was this in comparison to the rest of the data observed in the Localizer project?

"The long term plans for this resource is to keep it alive as a public example instance of the Brainomics software." What are the plans in terms of funding? How will this resource be kept "alive"?
